# Cost-to-serve-architecture
*###A single source for granular channel, customer and product profitability analytics and reporting.*
## Executive summary
[Click here for .pdf of full paper](https://github.com/tbgdetroit/Cost-to-serve-architecture/issues/1) Leading firms realize that to maximize the performance of their customer and product portfolios, it is essential to understand the value generated by each portfolio member. Cost‐to‐serve (CTS) is the term that is used to indicate the resources of the firm that are consumed serving particular products and services to specific customers.  It is safe to say that all firms understand their total costs, while it is the unusual firm that understands its granular CTS.    What prevents access to this information is that the complexity in providing it is much more than is initially apparent. There are several sources of this complexity, these include:    

  1. Solving the multi‐dimensional nature of the CTS solution. 
  2. Developing the transactional statistics that enable the calculation of costs at the granular level. 
  3. Providing reporting for users that allow them to act on the results. 
  4. Institutionalizing the process to create ongoing value.    

The resolution of these complexities is found in a comprehensive architectural approach to solving the need for CTS reporting capability.  This architectural approach is essential in that it avoids the tendency of firms who are uninitiated in CTS implementations to focus on a “software solution”, leading to an expensive surprise when they begin to understand the reality of the costs of implementation.  By understanding this architectural approach, one will avoid the unnecessary costs brought about by focusing on an incomplete, or worse, unworkable software solution.    This paper documents such a best-practices approach, and is the methodology that Quantalyst Consulting has implemented in its CTS engagements.  This approach has proven to result in an affordable implementation that will:    

  1. Leverage existing investments in systems and people 
  2. Create an agnostic data structure that is independent of the choice of calculation software 
  3. Develop an institutionalized, maintainable process to capture ongoing value 
  4. Provide comprehensive audit‐ability to the source costs 
  5. Implement a layered, separation of concerns approach that ensures the solution is, a) Robust, b) Maintainable, c) Adaptable, and; d) Reusable    
  
This technical document is structured as follows:    

  1. It explains where the payback is found in CTS implementations. 
  2. It defines the multi‐dimensional nature of CTS models including how to define the dimensions. 
  3. It provides an overview and benefit summary of the layered architectural approach. 
  4. It continues with a detailed discussion of each layer within the architectural approach. 
